So far we j unit test using a unit and
mockito we have called the service
impls methods and we have even mocked
out the dao but we haven't set the dao
on to the service yet so in this lecture
we will use the spring and spring test
annotations to do dependency injection
and we will complete our test we will do
it in three steps will first move the
service to a field level and then use
the spring and mockito annotations on it
and then we will mark this ticket
service impl test itself with two of
the spring annotations 1 j unit
annotation and one then one spring
annotation so before we do that let me
rename this test method to a meaningful
name let's call it buy tickets should
return a valid value if I run this test
right now right click run as a unit it
should throw a nullpointerexception
there you go it throws a
nullpointerexception because we haven't
set this Dao onto the service and the
service when it tries to use this DAO
get DAO it gets a null and it tries to
throw or when it tries to call the
create ticket exception it is throwing a
nullpointerexception so go back to the
test let's move this service hit control
one on this service here convert this
local variable to a field you will see
in a second why I am doing it and on top
of it use the @auto wild annotation
from spring so we are going to wire this
service through spring and we can delete
this line where we are creating the
service instance so even our test we are
doing the dependency injection on our
test using spring so hit ctrl d remove
that service instance creation another
annotation this is from mockito is at
inject mocks so mockito allows you to
inject all the dependencies using this
so instead of we saying
service. set we can inject the mocked out
dao into this service created by
spring at runtime using inject mocks you
have two more annotations to go at the
class level we need to tell this test
that it should use the spring
configuration it is not a simple j unit
test so first we will do run with will
configure the spring j unit 4 runner
instead of the default j unit runner
junit for class runner dot class so
this again comes from spring hyphen test
jar file at context configuration this
again is from the spring hyphen test
project or jar file here we are going to
tell the springs unit for class runner
where our spring configuration file is
so it is the application hyphen context
dot xml which is on the
classpath because it is under SRC main
resources this folder is on maven
classpath maven project class path let's
go back to our test this context
configuration has an attribute called
locations control space you can pass
multiple values to these locations using
flower braces but in our case we have
only one configuration file and in here
class path colon the file name
application hyphen context dot XML we
are all set except for we haven't
stubbed out the method on the mock doubt
object so take the DAO mockito dot when
now that mockito would have been imported
here let's make it a static import let's
import all the static methods on
mockito mockito dot star so import
static all the static methods on the
mockito class the method call is we can
take out mockito here now we can directly
use all the static methods let me add
some lines at the end so that you can
see it clearly
when dAO dot create ticket Here I am
going to use any any ticket let it be
any parameter we can also say any ticket
dot plus so it's up to us dot we fix
this by hitting control one import the
ticket first and then dot then return
one so we have stubbed out the method
when the service calls the DAO the
mocked out DAO object it's going to
return one and we are all set now let's
see what happens to our test right click
run as j unit test it's all green so we
have done a good job our test has passed
I will explain each and every annotation
one more time and the entire flow in the
next lecture.